All right so in this video we're going to be learning about static modifiers.
Now what are static modifiers.
Well starting Monday if I could be any data that is static in the class and when that data is static
in the class it means the only belongs to that class.
It does have nothing to do with instances.
Now it's actually better for me to show you visually so I'm going to go and do that.
Let's go to the coeditor here.
Let's create a save as from class on the scored 3 on the score card 3 that BHB array class on the scorecard
3 that BHB and let's make this static class underscore static that BHB or I am going to delete a couple
of things out of here.
One of the leaders first two properties there and go into the lead.
The second method I'm going to delete all this instances here and let's just see what we got here.
Should it have anything.
All right.
So the first thing that you should learn is how we define a static property.
Well static property very simple.
You use the word keyword.
The key word static.
And now this property is static meaning that this is attached to the class.
Now not attached to the instance.
So we can use that any more we can come here and say BMW like we used to do before and say wheels we
can do that because it's going to give us a undefine property hero here right.
We can't refer to it like this anymore.
Right.
So we have to use something in order for us to use this we need to use a different different notations
and the notation that we use is something like this.
We need to first let's say we're going to Let's first do this up here and this comment is because it's
not working eventually right.
So let's say we want to echo this.
Right.
And even if I echoed here I just wanted to show you that it doesn't work it's the same thing OK.
Adding Ikoyi But just because I wanted to I went ahead of myself in my head and did it.
But anyway let's just ekal.
And then the way we refer to this static property now is because that's actually the class we need to
tell BHP Where is this property at right.
These property there's are of the class to what class is this attached to.
So we know that is attached to a car which is that's the car the class right there and then the way
we refer it instead of using the arrow here we used to.
That's right.
Kallen used to Courtland's here and then we write in name what we first need to put the dollar sign
because now this is a variable arised not an instance property.
All right.
And that's it right there.
So I know it looks pretty weird but that's the way it is.
So now this is just a static property we can use it anywhere we want as long as we refer to the class
where it's located.
We can also have static functions methods within the class.
All right.
So that's not only data we can have static methods that are only attached to the class instead of being
attached to the instance.
All right.
So because well you know that in order for us to use these properties here in their normal sense right
here like this we need to create an instance.
There's no other way of using it unless we create an instance.
Right but not any more if we use static we can use that in instances we can use it any way we want but
we have to use it like this.
Right.
No doubt about that.
We can also lead.
Now another thing that I want to discuss about let's say for example now you can use a regular method
then call a static property that's not a problem.
But we need we need to refer it differently.
So the way we refer to this class instead of using this does variable that we use with instance right.
What we do is we refer to this is very simple we use the name of the class to coolants and the variable
there.
All right the very dollar sign or symbol whatever you want to call it.
And then we can invoke this and then where we invoke is very similar to how we invoke.
So now that this wheel's here is has a different value that we can go ahead and echo that.
So but we first to do that let's go ahead and car two dots and then the name of the method always use
the two dots first.
And now we can see the value change to 10 right.
So to call any static data inside the class we use the two dots right here like this.
So we change this arrow for two dots and instead of having the instance name we have the class name.
So that's the difference there.
Don't let that trip you off.
There he would trip a lot of programmers as a matter of fact when they first starting.
But no that this is the way it is.
So if you have any errors or something like that look for dollar signs that you're missing because if
you now you see in the instance we don't use dollar signs.
So that could trip you up there make sure that you use the name Misha using the class name.
All right.
So anyway thank you so much for watching this video I hope you learn some valuable information.
And I see you on the next lesson.
Take care.